<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

-   [state][1]
-   [route][2]
-   [routing][3]
    -   [Properties][4]
    -   [Examples][5]
-   [Route][6]
    -   [Properties][7]
-   [createRouteSegments][8]
    -   [Parameters][9]
    -   [Examples][10]
-   [findRouteSegmentWithParams][11]
    -   [Parameters][12]
-   [findRouteSegment][13]
    -   [Parameters][14]
-   [routeTransition][15]
    -   [Parameters][16]
-   [whenPresent][17]
    -   [Parameters][18]
-   [Routing][19]
    -   [Parameters][20]
-   [router-helper][21]
-   [RouteConfig][22]
    -   [Examples][23]
-   [BaseConfig][24]
    -   [Properties][25]
-   [CommonConfig][26]
    -   [Properties][27]
-   [parsePath][28]
    -   [Parameters][29]
-   [createParsePath][30]
    -   [Parameters][31]
-   [RouterConfig][32]
    -   [Properties][33]
-   [FeatherConfig][34]
    -   [Properties][35]
-   [UrlMapperConfig][36]
    -   [Properties][37]
-   [MithrilConfig][38]
    -   [Properties][39]
-   [createRouter][40]
    -   [Parameters][41]
    -   [Examples][42]
-   [createFeatherRouter][43]
    -   [Parameters][44]
    -   [Examples][45]
-   [createUrlMapperRouter][46]
    -   [Parameters][47]
    -   [Examples][48]
-   [createMithrilRouter][49]
    -   [Parameters][50]
    -   [Examples][51]

## state

`meiosis-routing/state`

## route

A route is an array of Route segments.

Type: [Array][52]&lt;[Route][53]>

## routing

A routing is an object with navigation methods.

Type: [Object][54]

### Properties

-   `localSegment` **[Route][53]** 
-   `childSegment` **[Route][53]** 
-   `next` **function (): [routing][55]** returns the next routing instance
-   `parentRoute` **function (): [route][53]** returns the parent route
-   `childRoute` **function ([route][53]): [route][53]** returns a child route
-   `siblingRoute` **function ([route][53]): [route][53]** returns a sibling route

### Examples

```javascript
href={routing.parentRoute()}

routing.childRoute(Route.Child());
routing.childRoute([Route.User(), Route.Details()];
```

## Route

A Route is a route segment.

Type: [Object][54]

### Properties

-   `id` **[string][56]** 
-   `params` **[Object][54]** 

## createRouteSegments

Creates a `Route` with functions to create Route segments.

### Parameters

-   `routeNames` **[Array][52]&lt;[string][56]>** the list of route names.

### Examples

```javascript
const Route = createRouteSegments(["Home", "User"]);

Route.Home()
// { id: "Home", params: {} }

Route.User({ name: "duck" })
// { id: "User", params: { name: "duck" } }
```

Returns **[Constructor][57]&lt;[Route][53]>** the `Route` with constructor functions.

## findRouteSegmentWithParams

Looks for a Route segment, with matching params, in a route.

### Parameters

-   `route` **[route][53]** 
-   `routeSegmentWithParams` **[Route][53]** 

Returns **[Route][53]** the matching Route segment, or `undefined` if `route` is empty or the Route
segment was not found.

## findRouteSegment

Looks for a Route segment, regardless of the params, in a route.

### Parameters

-   `route` **[route][53]** 
-   `id` **[string][56]** 

Returns **[Route][53]** the matching Route segment, or `undefined` if `route` is empty or a Route
segment with the given id was not found.

## routeTransition

Calculates route transitions, providing `leave` and `arrive` to indicate the route segments for
the route that we are leaving, and the route to which we are arriving, respectively.

### Parameters

-   `state` **[Object][54]** the route state
    -   `state.previous`  
    -   `state.current`  

Returns **[Object][54]** an object with `previous`, `current`, `leave`, and `arrive` properties.

## whenPresent

`function whenPresent(value, fn): any`

Calls a function with a value only if the value is not `null` or `undefined`.

### Parameters

-   `value` **any** the value to check
-   `fn` **function (value)** the function to call if `value` is present

Returns **any** the result of calling `fn(value)`, or `null` if `value` is absent.

## Routing

### Parameters

-   `route` **[route][53]** 
-   `index` **[number][58]** 

Returns **[routing][55]** a routing object

## router-helper

`meiosis-routing/router-helper`

## RouteConfig

Route configuration. This is an Object for which the properties are the ids of the route
segments, and the values are either:

-   a string: the route path. May contain `:` for path parameters. May also contain `?` and/or `&`
    for query string parameters.
-   an array: `[ path, (optional) array of parameters from the parent, nested route config ]`

Type: [Object][54]

### Examples

```javascript
const routeConfig = {
  Home: "/",
  User: ["/user/:name?param1", {
    Profile: "/profile?param2&param3",
    Preferences: ["/preferences", ["name"]]
  }]
};
```

## BaseConfig

Base router configuration.

Type: [Object][54]

### Properties

-   `routeConfig` **[RouteConfig][59]** the route config
-   `prefix` **[string][56]?** the URL path prefix. Defaults to `"#"`.
-   `getPath` **[function][60]?** the function to get the path from the browser's location bar.
    Defaults to `(() => document.location.hash || prefix + "/")`.
-   `setPath` **[function][60]?** the function to set the path on the browser's location bar.
    Defaults to `(path => window.history.pushState({}, "", path))`.

## CommonConfig

Common router configuration.

Type: [BaseConfig][61]

### Properties

-   `defaultRoute` **[route][53]?** the default route
-   `addLocationChangeListener` **[function][60]?** the function to add the location change
    listener. Defaults to `window.onpopstate = listener`.

## parsePath

`function parsePath(path, queryParams): route`

Function that parses a path and returns a route.

Type: [function][60]

### Parameters

-   `path` **[string][56]** the path to parse.
-   `queryParams` **[Object][54]** an object with the query string parameters, if any are present.

Returns **[route][53]** the route obtained from the path and parameters.

## createParsePath

`function createParsePath(routeMap, defaultRoute): parsePath`

Function that creates a function to parse a path.

Type: [function][60]

### Parameters

-   `routeMap` **[Object][54]** an object with key-value pairs.
-   `defaultRoute` **[route][53]** the default route.

Returns **[parsePath][62]** the function that parses a path.

## RouterConfig

Generic router configuration.

Type: [CommonConfig][63]

### Properties

-   `createParsePath` **[createParsePath][64]** function that parses a path using a router library.

## FeatherConfig

Feather router configuration object.

Type: [CommonConfig][63]

### Properties

-   `createRouteMatcher` **[function][60]** the Feather Route Matcher function.

## UrlMapperConfig

URL-Mapper router configuration object.

Type: [CommonConfig][63]

### Properties

-   `Mapper` **[Function][60]** the URL Mapper function.

## MithrilConfig

Mithril router configuration object.

Type: [BaseConfig][61]

### Properties

-   `m` **Mithril** the Mithril instance.

## createRouter

Generic function to create a router from a router library of your choice.

To use this function, write a `createXYZRouter` function that in turn calls `createRouter`.
All config parameters except for `createParsePath` are normally passed-thru from
`createXYZRouter` to `createRouter`, unless you want to define specific implementations of
`getPath`, `setPath`, and/or `addLocationChangeListener`.

The key parse is `createParsePath`. This is where you define how to plug in to the router
library of your choice.

`function createParsePath(routeMap, defaultRoute)` receives a `routeMap` which is an object
with

### Parameters

-   `config` **[RouterConfig][65]** 
    -   `config.createParsePath`  
    -   `config.routeConfig`  
    -   `config.defaultRoute`  
    -   `config.prefix`   (optional, default `"#"`)
    -   `config.queryString`  
    -   `config.getPath`  
    -   `config.setPath`  
    -   `config.addLocationChangeListener`  

### Examples

```javascript
// Example of a createParsePath function with feather-route-matcher
const createParsePath = (routeMap, defaultRoute) => {
  const routeMatcher = createRouteMatcher(routeMap);

  const parsePath = (path, queryParams) => {
    const match = routeMatcher(path);

    if (match) {
      return match.page(Object.assign({}, match.params, queryParams));
    } else {
      return defaultRoute;
    }
  };
  return parsePath;
};
```

Returns **[Object][54]** router

## createFeatherRouter

Creates a router using
[feather-route-matcher][66].

### Parameters

-   `config` **[FeatherConfig][67]** 
    -   `config.createRouteMatcher`  
    -   `config.routeConfig`  
    -   `config.defaultRoute`  
    -   `config.prefix`   (optional, default `"#"`)
    -   `config.queryString`  
    -   `config.getPath`  
    -   `config.setPath`  
    -   `config.addLocationChangeListener`  

### Examples

```javascript
import createRouteMatcher from "feather-route-matcher";
import queryString from "query-string"; // only if using query strings

const Route = createRouteSegments([...]);

const routeConfig = { ... };

const router = createFeatherRouter({
  createRouteMatcher,
  routeConfig,
  defaultRoute: [Route.Home()],
  queryString // only if using query strings
});
```

## createUrlMapperRouter

Creates a router using
[url-mapper][68].

### Parameters

-   `config` **[UrlMapperConfig][69]** 
    -   `config.Mapper`  
    -   `config.routeConfig`  
    -   `config.defaultRoute`  
    -   `config.prefix`   (optional, default `"#"`)
    -   `config.queryString`  
    -   `config.getPath`  
    -   `config.setPath`  
    -   `config.addLocationChangeListener`  

### Examples

```javascript
import Mapper from "url-mapper";
import urlon from "urlon"; // only if using query strings

const Route = createRouteSegments([...]);

const routeConfig = { ... };

const router = createUrlMapperRouter({
  Mapper,
  routeConfig,
  defaultRoute: [Route.Home()],
  queryString: urlon // only if using query strings
});
```

## createMithrilRouter

Creates a router using
[Mithril Router][70].

### Parameters

-   `config` **[MithrilConfig][71]** 
    -   `config.m`  
    -   `config.routeConfig`  
    -   `config.prefix`   (optional, default `"#!"`)
    -   `config.getPath`  
    -   `config.setPath`  

### Examples

```javascript
import m from "mithril";
// Note: query strings are built-in to Mithril

const Route = createRouteSegments([...]);

const routeConfig = { ... };

const router = createMithrilRouter({
  m,
  routeConfig
});
```

[1]: #state

[2]: #route

[3]: #routing

[4]: #properties

[5]: #examples

[6]: #route-1

[7]: #properties-1

[8]: #createroutesegments

[9]: #parameters

[10]: #examples-1

[11]: #findroutesegmentwithparams

[12]: #parameters-1

[13]: #findroutesegment

[14]: #parameters-2

[15]: #routetransition

[16]: #parameters-3

[17]: #whenpresent

[18]: #parameters-4

[19]: #routing-1

[20]: #parameters-5

[21]: #router-helper

[22]: #routeconfig

[23]: #examples-2

[24]: #baseconfig

[25]: #properties-2

[26]: #commonconfig

[27]: #properties-3

[28]: #parsepath

[29]: #parameters-6

[30]: #createparsepath

[31]: #parameters-7

[32]: #routerconfig

[33]: #properties-4

[34]: #featherconfig

[35]: #properties-5

[36]: #urlmapperconfig

[37]: #properties-6

[38]: #mithrilconfig

[39]: #properties-7

[40]: #createrouter

[41]: #parameters-8

[42]: #examples-3

[43]: #createfeatherrouter

[44]: #parameters-9

[45]: #examples-4

[46]: #createurlmapperrouter

[47]: #parameters-10

[48]: #examples-5

[49]: #createmithrilrouter

[50]: #parameters-11

[51]: #examples-6

[52]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array

[53]: #route

[54]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[55]: #routing

[56]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[57]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/constructor

[58]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number

[59]: #routeconfig

[60]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/function

[61]: #baseconfig

[62]: #parsepath

[63]: #commonconfig

[64]: #createparsepath

[65]: #routerconfig

[66]: https://github.com/HenrikJoreteg/feather-route-matcher

[67]: #featherconfig

[68]: https://github.com/cerebral/url-mapper

[69]: #urlmapperconfig

[70]: https://mithril.js.org/route.html

[71]: #mithrilconfig
