<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

-   [Stream][1]
    -   [Parameters][2]
-   [StreamLib][3]
    -   [Parameters][4]
    -   [Properties][5]
-   [Accumulator][6]
    -   [Parameters][7]
-   [Combine][8]
    -   [Parameters][9]
-   [Service][10]
    -   [Parameters][11]
-   [Effect][12]
    -   [Parameters][13]
-   [ActionConstructor][14]
    -   [Parameters][15]
-   [EffectConstructor][16]
    -   [Parameters][17]
-   [App][18]
    -   [Properties][19]
-   [MeiosisConfig][20]
    -   [Properties][21]
-   [Meiosis][22]
    -   [Properties][23]
-   [meiosis.common.setup][24]
    -   [Parameters][25]
-   [LocalPath][26]
    -   [Properties][27]
-   [NestPatchFunction][28]
    -   [Parameters][29]
-   [LocalPatch][30]
    -   [Properties][31]
-   [Nest][32]
    -   [Parameters][33]
    -   [Properties][34]
-   [Nest][35]
    -   [Parameters][36]
-   [NestFunction][37]
    -   [Parameters][38]
-   [MergerinoPatch][39]
-   [MeiosisMergerinoConfig][40]
    -   [Properties][41]
-   [meiosis.mergerino.setup][42]
    -   [Parameters][43]
-   [FunctionPatch][44]
    -   [Parameters][45]
-   [MeiosisFunctionPatchesConfig][46]
-   [meiosis.functionPatches.setup][47]
    -   [Parameters][48]
-   [ImmerPatch][49]
    -   [Parameters][50]
-   [MeiosisImmerConfig][51]
    -   [Properties][52]
-   [meiosis.immer.setup][53]
    -   [Parameters][54]
-   [meiosis.preact.setup][55]
    -   [Parameters][56]
-   [meiosis.react.setup][57]
    -   [Parameters][58]
-   [SimpleStream][59]
-   [meiosis.simpleStream.stream][60]
    -   [Parameters][61]
-   [map][62]
    -   [Parameters][63]
-   [scan][64]
    -   [Parameters][65]
-   [index][66]

## Stream

Type: [Function][67]

### Parameters

-   `value` **T?** 

Returns **T** the value

## StreamLib

Stream library. This works with `meiosis.simpleStream`, `flyd`, `m.stream`, or anything for which
you provide either a function or an object with a `stream` function to create a stream. The
function or object must also have a `scan` property. The returned stream must have a `map`
method.

Type: ([Object][68] \| [Function][67])

### Parameters

-   `value` **any?** the stream's initial value.

### Properties

-   `stream` **[Function][67]&lt;T>** the function to create a stream, if the stream library itself is
    not a function.
-   `scan` **[Function][67]** the stream library's `scan` function.

Returns **[Stream][69]&lt;T>** the created stream.

## Accumulator

Type: [Function][67]

### Parameters

-   `state` **S** 
-   `patch` **P** 

Returns **S** updated state

## Combine

Type: [Function][67]

### Parameters

-   `patches` **[Array][70]&lt;P>** 

Returns **P** patch

## Service

Type: [Function][67]

### Parameters

-   `state` **S** 

Returns **P** the patch.

## Effect

Type: [Function][67]

### Parameters

-   `state` **S** 

Returns **void** 

## ActionConstructor

Type: [Function][67]

### Parameters

-   `update` **[Stream][69]&lt;P>** 
-   `states` **[Stream][69]&lt;S>?** 

Returns **A** actions

## EffectConstructor

Type: [Function][67]

### Parameters

-   `update` **[Stream][69]&lt;P>** 
-   `actions` **A?** 

Returns **[Array][70]&lt;[Effect][71]&lt;S>>** effects

## App

Application object.

Type: [Object][68]

### Properties

-   `initial` **S?** an object that represents the initial state. If not specified, the
    initial state will be `{}`.
-   `services` **[Array][70]&lt;[Service][72]&lt;S, P>>?** an array of service functions, each of which should be
    `state => patch?`.
-   `Actions` **[ActionConstructor][73]&lt;S, P, A>?** a function that creates actions, of the
    form `update => actions`.
-   `Effects` **[EffectConstructor][74]&lt;S, P, A>?** a function that creates effects, of the
    form `(update, actions) => [effects]`, which each effect is `state => void` and calls `update`
    and/or `actions`.

## MeiosisConfig

Type: [Object][68]

### Properties

-   `stream` **[StreamLib][75]** the stream library. This works with `meiosis.simpleStream`, `flyd`,
    `m.stream`, or anything for which you provide either a function or an object with a `stream`
    function to create a stream. The function or object must also have a `scan` property. The
    returned stream must have a `map` method.
-   `accumulator` **[Accumulator][76]&lt;S, P>** the accumulator function.
-   `combine` **[Combine][77]&lt;P>** the function that combines an array of patches into one patch.
-   `app` **[App][78]&lt;S, P, A>** the app, with optional properties.

## Meiosis

Type: [Object][68]

### Properties

-   `states` **[Stream][69]&lt;S>** 
-   `update` **[Stream][69]&lt;P>** 
-   `actions` **A** 

## meiosis.common.setup

Base helper to setup the Meiosis pattern. If you are using Mergerino, Function Patches, or Immer,
use their respective `setup` function instead.

Patch is merged in to the state by default. Services have access to the state and can return a
patch that further updates the state. State changes by services are available to the next
services in the list.

After the services have run and the state has been updated, effects are executed and have the
opportunity to trigger more updates.

### Parameters

-   `config` **[MeiosisConfig][79]&lt;S, P, A>** the Meiosis config

Returns **[Meiosis][80]&lt;S, P, A>** `{ states, update, actions }`, where `states` and `update` are
streams, and `actions` are the created actions.

## LocalPath

The `path` is stored on the local object for internal use.

Type: [Object][68]

### Properties

-   `path` **[Array][70]&lt;[string][81]>** 

## NestPatchFunction

Function that nests a patch `P2`

Type: [Function][67]

### Parameters

-   `patch` **P2** the nested patch

Returns **P1** the top-level patch with `P2` nested within

## LocalPatch

A local object with a `patch` function to create a nested patch.

Type: [Object][68]

### Properties

-   `patch` **[NestPatchFunction][82]&lt;P2, P1>** 

## Nest

Function to get the local state from the global state.

### Parameters

-   `createNestPatchFunction`  

### Properties

-   `get` **function (S1): S2** 

## Nest

Constructor to create a `nest` function.

### Parameters

-   `createNestPatchFunction` **function ([Array][70]&lt;[string][81]>): [NestPatchFunction][82]&lt;P2, P1>** 

Returns **[NestFunction][83]&lt;S1, P1, S2, P2>** 

## NestFunction

Function that creates a local object from the specified nest path and, optionally, another
local object.

Type: [Function][67]

### Parameters

-   `path` **([string][81] \| [Array][70]&lt;[string][81]>)** 
-   `local` **[LocalPath][84]?** 

Returns **Local&lt;S1, P1, S2, P2>** 

## MergerinoPatch

Type: any

## MeiosisMergerinoConfig

Type: [Object][68]

### Properties

-   `merge` **function (S, [MergerinoPatch][85]): S** the Mergerino `merge` function.

## meiosis.mergerino.setup

Helper to setup the Meiosis pattern with [Mergerino][86].

### Parameters

-   `config` **[MeiosisMergerinoConfig][87]&lt;S, A>** the Meiosis config for use with Mergerino

## FunctionPatch

Type: [Function][67]

### Parameters

-   `state` **S** current state

Returns **S** the updated state

## MeiosisFunctionPatchesConfig

Type: [Object][68]

## meiosis.functionPatches.setup

Helper to setup the Meiosis pattern with function patches.

### Parameters

-   `config` **[MeiosisFunctionPatchesConfig][88]&lt;S, A>** the Meiosis config for use with Function
    Patches

## ImmerPatch

Type: [Function][67]

### Parameters

-   `state` **S** current state

Returns **(S | void)** 

## MeiosisImmerConfig

Type: [Object][68]

### Properties

-   `produce` **function (S, [ImmerPatch][89]&lt;S>): S** the Immer `produce` function.

## meiosis.immer.setup

Helper to setup the Meiosis pattern with [Immer][90].

### Parameters

-   `config` **[MeiosisImmerConfig][91]&lt;S, A>** the Meiosis config for use with Mergerino

## meiosis.preact.setup

Helper to setup the Meiosis pattern with [Preact][92].

### Parameters

-   `h` **any** the Preact h function.
-   `useState` **any** the Preact hooks useState function.
-   `Root` **any** your Root component, which receives `state`, `update`, and `actions`.

Returns **any** the top-level component to which you pass `states`, and either `update`,
`actions`, or both.

## meiosis.react.setup

Helper to setup the Meiosis pattern with [React][93].

### Parameters

-   `React` **any** the React instance.
-   `Root` **any** your Root component, which receives `state`, `update`, and `actions`.

Returns **any** the top-level component to which you pass `states`, and either `update`,
`actions`, or both.

## SimpleStream

Simple stream implementation.

Type: [Object][68]

## meiosis.simpleStream.stream

Creates a stream.

### Parameters

-   `initial` **any?** the stream's initial value.

## map

### Parameters

-   `mapFunction`  

## scan

Creates a new stream that starts with the initial value and, for each value arriving onto the
source stream, emits the result of calling the accumulator function with the latest result and
the source stream value.

### Parameters

-   `accumulator`  
-   `initial`  
-   `sourceStream`  

## index

[1]: #stream

[2]: #parameters

[3]: #streamlib

[4]: #parameters-1

[5]: #properties

[6]: #accumulator

[7]: #parameters-2

[8]: #combine

[9]: #parameters-3

[10]: #service

[11]: #parameters-4

[12]: #effect

[13]: #parameters-5

[14]: #actionconstructor

[15]: #parameters-6

[16]: #effectconstructor

[17]: #parameters-7

[18]: #app

[19]: #properties-1

[20]: #meiosisconfig

[21]: #properties-2

[22]: #meiosis

[23]: #properties-3

[24]: #meiosiscommonsetup

[25]: #parameters-8

[26]: #localpath

[27]: #properties-4

[28]: #nestpatchfunction

[29]: #parameters-9

[30]: #localpatch

[31]: #properties-5

[32]: #nest

[33]: #parameters-10

[34]: #properties-6

[35]: #nest-1

[36]: #parameters-11

[37]: #nestfunction

[38]: #parameters-12

[39]: #mergerinopatch

[40]: #meiosismergerinoconfig

[41]: #properties-7

[42]: #meiosismergerinosetup

[43]: #parameters-13

[44]: #functionpatch

[45]: #parameters-14

[46]: #meiosisfunctionpatchesconfig

[47]: #meiosisfunctionpatchessetup

[48]: #parameters-15

[49]: #immerpatch

[50]: #parameters-16

[51]: #meiosisimmerconfig

[52]: #properties-8

[53]: #meiosisimmersetup

[54]: #parameters-17

[55]: #meiosispreactsetup

[56]: #parameters-18

[57]: #meiosisreactsetup

[58]: #parameters-19

[59]: #simplestream

[60]: #meiosissimplestreamstream

[61]: #parameters-20

[62]: #map

[63]: #parameters-21

[64]: #scan

[65]: #parameters-22

[66]: #index

[67]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/function

[68]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[69]: #stream

[70]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array

[71]: #effect

[72]: #service

[73]: #actionconstructor

[74]: #effectconstructor

[75]: #streamlib

[76]: #accumulator

[77]: #combine

[78]: #app

[79]: #meiosisconfig

[80]: #meiosis

[81]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[82]: #nestpatchfunction

[83]: #nestfunction

[84]: #localpath

[85]: #mergerinopatch

[86]: https://github.com/fuzetsu/mergerino

[87]: #meiosismergerinoconfig

[88]: #meiosisfunctionpatchesconfig

[89]: #immerpatch

[90]: https://github.com/immerjs/immer

[91]: #meiosisimmerconfig

[92]: https://preactjs.com/

[93]: https://reactjs.org/
